PREFACE
---

>　Management books usually deal with managing other people. The subject of this book is managing oneself for effectiveness. That one can truly manage other people is by no means adequately proven. But one can always manage oneself. Indeed, executives who do not manage themselves for effectiveness cannot possibly expect to manage their associates and subordinates. Management is largely by example. Executives who do not know how to make themselves effective in their own job and work set the wrong example.
>　
>　To be reasonably effective it is not enough for the individual to be intelligent, to work hard or to be knowledgeable. Effectiveness is something separate, somthing different. But to be effective also does not require special gifts, special aptitude, or special training. Effectiveness as an executive demands doing certain - and fairly simple - things. It consists of a small number of practices, the parctices that are presented and discussed in this book. But thesse practices are not "inborn." in forty-five years of work as a consultant with a large numbe of executives in a wide variety of organizations - large and small; businesses, government agencies, labor unions, hospitals, universities, community services; American, European, Latin American and Japanese - I have not come across a sigle "natural": an executive who was born effective. All the effective ones have had to learn to be effective. And all of them then had to practice effectiveness until it became habit. But all the ones who worked on making themselves effectives executives succeedd in doing so. Effectiveness can be learned - and it also has to be learned.
>　
>　Effectiveness is what executives are being paid for, whether they work as managers who are responsible for the performance of others as well as their own, or as individual professional contributors responsible for their own performance only. Without effectiveness there is no "performance," no matter how much intelligence and knowledge goes into the work, no matter how many hours it takes. Yet it is perhaps not too surprising that we have so far paid little attention to the effective executive. Organizations - whether business enterprises, large government agencies, labor unions, large hospitals or large universities - are, after all, brand new. A century ago almost no one had even much contact with such organizations beyond an occasional trip to the local post office to mail a letter. And effectiveness as an executive means effectiveness in and through an organization. Until recently there was little reason for anyone to pay much attention to the effective executive or to worry about the low effectiveness of so many of them. Now, however, most people - especially those with even a fair amount of schooling - can expect to spend all their working lives in an organization of some kind. Society has become a society of organizations in all developed countries. Now the effectiveness of the individual depends increasingly on his or her ability to be effective in an organization, to be effective as an executive. And the effectiveness of a modern society and its ability to perform - perhaps even its ability to survive - depend increasingly on the effectiveness of the people who work as executives in the organizations. The effective executive is fast becoming a key resource for society, and effectiveness as an executive a prime requirement for individual accomplishment and achievement - for young people at the beginning of their working lives fully as much as for people in mid-career.

Claremont, California 
New Year's Day, 1985

Peter F. Drucker